But look, I'm gonna be a pro.
I'm gonna switch to this and I'm gonna check
if your audio works.
Say something.
- Ooh, I'm saying things.
- And your audio works.
- And my audio works.
- We're not gonna go five minutes
and have someone yell at us.
- Look at us.
We're still on top of things.
(upbeat music)
- Sometimes I forget this is a podcast.
- What is this?
- I've got two Twitch things to talk about.
- Let's do it.
- One, I just saw they announced TwitchCon 2024.
It's not in Vegas.
San Diego.
- I saw that and I was like,
I've always wanted to go to San Diego.
People always say San Diego is amazing.
I check out San Diego.
Everyone loves San Diego.
This is the Mexican food so good.
There's a zoo there, I think.
- It's great, yep.
You gotta go this year.
- Yeah, I'll heavily consider it.
- Heavily consider it.
- The dates are right here.
September 20th to 22nd.
- Ooh, I have plans that day.
- Do you do not?
There's no way you plan out September.
Like that far in advance.
- That says the accent followed me on Twitter.
I'm too bored.
Okay, so I will confess.
I unfollowed a bunch of people last week.
Do not take it personally.
I'm just in a period of time
where I need to really focus on certain things
and I need to not get distracted by things
that are easily distracting.
- What a jerk.
- So I'm sorry.
- Don't you know that Twitter following
is just friendship and it means nothing else.
Adam, do you need to get into what you do?
- I do, I do.
- You follow people,
then you realize you don't like what they're saying
and you don't unfollow them.
You just meet them.
- Yeah, that's the polite thing to do.
- You keep them followed.
Like I forget I'm backstabber.
- So you follow people who you have a connection to.
That's all that matters.
Connections.
It's about the thing.
- Yeah, I know.
That's why I felt weird to unfollow people
'cause I'm like, it seems like a dramatic statement, but.
- You should feel weird and bad.
I'm sorry, Dev, on behalf of DAX.
I'm sorry.
- Is Adam only a mute?
- Yeah, I was starting to do the mute thing
and I was like, this is weird.
And I'm just gonna see a bunch of like,
you've muted this all over my feed and I don't know.
It's awkward.
Don't take it personally.
I'm just trying to focus on some other things.
- I'm gonna take it personally
on behalf of all of these people that you've now
and followed.
I don't like it.
I don't like one bit.
Another Twitch thing, shifting back to the Twitch thing.
One, you're going to Twitch gone.
That's awesome.
Say it to Diego, it's gonna be amazing.
Two, I bought a cellular modem for streaming IRL.
- I saw your stream and it was very,
I didn't see it live, but I watched the thing.
It seemed like really good quality in terms of--
- Well, that was actually just my phone.
- Oh, really? Okay.
- Yeah, that was just my phone on a little stand.
But after streaming one jiu-jitsu tournament,
I thought, I'm gonna stream everything I do.
I'm gonna stream all my training sessions
with like personal trainer, my weight training sessions,
my jiu-jitsu training session.
I'm gonna stream it all.
I don't care.
'Cause I can't really stream at my desk right now.
Yeah, I'm Twitch.
- That's cool.
How does a cellular modem work you pay for
like another line with your carrier, basically?
- This company makes these like two and four modem setups
that it uses like a bonded thing.
Like bonds, multiple, there's some bondage involved.
I don't know.
- Oh my God.
- It takes like, you just pay them a monthly fee
and they provide this like multi-carrier,
stable connection thing.
- Oh, multi, oh, cool.
- Yeah, so I got two modems.
I didn't go for four.
- Nice.
- Let's see how it goes.
- And if you tried it, if you tried it with like--
- It's not here yet.
- Oh, okay.
- But I'm gonna start as soon as it gets here.
Like everything I'm doing, physical activity-wise.
- You can be like a live news channel, you know?
Just like whenever you see something--
- Just walk around.
- Just run up into the stream.
- There's nothing that happens in the US arcs.
I don't go outside on streets.
I don't know what streets you're talking about, but.
- I wish that I really need to get like those glasses
with the camera in them because I live in a place
where literally every single day I see something ridiculous.
Like the other, yesterday I went out
to my front yard, I was like playing with Zuko.
And I look up and there's a lime green Lamborghini SUV
driving backwards down my street.
(laughing)
I'm like, I bet there's people that go
to their whole life and never see that.
- I didn't know there were any PHP developers in that--
- No Lamborghini SUV.
- Oh, I didn't know Lamborghini made an SUV.
- No, it's actually a scam.
- I consider it a scam.
- Okay, here's why I consider it a scam.
The Lamborghini SUV is actually just an Audi SUV.
I've read the exact model.
They just bought that, the core, like the,
they call it the platform.
And they put a body kit on it to make it look like--
- Oh, where?
- It looks like a cool Lamborghini with like jagged edges.
- Yeah, and they're super popular because
SUVs are really convenient, like most families need SUVs.
And if you're rich, you're like,
I want a Lamborghini SUV and--
- Yeah, it's crazy popular.
- Parable to like, is it like a cheaper thing
that they sell or is it?
- I think it's still like a three or $400,000 car.
I think that the car that's built on,
it's built on top of is like a $100,000 car.
So, scam, if you buy it and I see you in it,
I know you got scammed.
- Well, you can use my glasses.
I've got some and I haven't used them in months.
Well, since that time I put them on for the podcast,
I think it's the last time I wore them.
- Wait, wait, which ones do you have, the NAPT ones?
Or the metal ones?
- The metal ones.
- Oh, you haven't, wait, but you got those recently,
didn't you?
It's didn't stick?
- Whenever that was, a few months ago, yeah,
I haven't used them.
- If you want to send them to me,
I will happily take it.
- Okay, yeah, I would love to see some Miami.
That would be fun.
There's just nothing around me in the Ozarks,
so it's like, it'd be the inside of my house all the time
and like, I don't know, once you've seen them once.
Kind of seeing it.
Am I, do I have a problem with consumerism?
- I want to talk about this.
There was a tweet and from a friend.
And if this friend happens to notice
that I'm talking about this tweet,
just know I was not offended by you.
In fact, I can't be offended.
That's the thing about me, a personality trait of mine.
Not offended by you, but it did, it woke me up.
The tweet was basically something like,
if you replace religion in a society,
or if you eliminate religion in a society,
then people will fill it with things,
fill that void with things that are worse,
something something like consumerism.
And I thought about how I got rid of religion in my life,
and I feel like I'm kind of a consumer.
Is it a consumerist?
What is the word, just a consumer?
And I'm an excessive consumer.
- One who partakes in consumerism.
- Yeah, I'm taking consumerism, yes.
I worship at the church of consumerism, I guess.
Not really, but I do think, yeah.
Maybe I need some spirituality in my life or something,
so I can be less, I don't know,
like I buy meta glasses and I never wear them again.
(laughing)
What does it mean, Dax?
- Okay, I think that initial statement you're talking about
combines like a million different things together.
There's a version of it that can be true.
So for me, yes, I think religion historically
has served a lot of fulfilling things that people need,
just like a way to live life.
'Cause that's like, was not a thing you ever had to think about
until recently, how do I live life?
What do I do, how do I die?
What happens when I die?
Like how do I get buried?
Like all those questions answered?
I don't necessarily think if you remove that,
you automatically feel it with stuff that's worse.
I think there's plenty of people that are,
in this example, they're into consumerism
and they're also religious.
I think there's people that don't have religion
and flop it with something, maybe even better.
So I don't know if those things are like,
you should assume those things are related for you,
like they might be, but I don't know.
But the question I have is like, what is consumerism?
Like when people say that, like what are they actually
describing, like what do you picture in your head?
- So I'm glad you asked that.
'Cause when I thought about this question,
I went to post to you.
I thought, Dax is gonna have an answer
that reminds me that like, abundance and stuff.
(laughs)
I think when I hear consumerism,
I think like excessive consuming, excessive buying of things,
surrounding yourself with things that you don't really need,
I guess that's what I think of.
- Yeah, I mean-- - Is that accurate?
- So I definitely feel this too.
So where do you put all your stuff when like these glasses
that you don't, you're never gonna touch again?
Like where do they go?
- They're currently in my Jiu Jitsu bag,
just in case I decide-- - Oh, it's just too bad, okay.
- I'm aware of them while I'm rolling or something,
I guess, I don't know.
- When things of yours get more permanently retired,
would you put them in a singular place?
- Permanently retired, we give them away
to the thrift store.
- Oh, okay, so that actually feels better.
So here's my-- - It does it, okay.
I feel bad when I drop boxes full of stuff
that we don't want there, like, I don't know.
- There was definitely a phase during COVID
where I was making a crazy amount of money,
was making a crazy amount of money
and like literally anything that I saw,
like I was just like, I'm just gonna get it,
'cause it just means, you know, nothing.
- Yeah. - Like has no impact
on my finances.
And I ended up buying like a lot of stuff.
There's a reason why I have two longboards here
and a long word behind me, which are each like $2,000 each.
It would just-- - I didn't know
they were that expensive, wow, okay.
- Yeah, they're electric so that later,
I'm causing a lot, yeah.
Like I just piled up with a bunch of things
and I will say for me personally,
that was reflecting on that, like,
that wasn't the right balance.
I would see like, 'cause I was in New York,
like when you, you don't have a lot of space,
but you have stuff that you don't use anymore,
it like really sticks out.
And then you would start seeing these like piles of things
or like in your closet, like a bunch of things that--
- Yeah, yeah.
- You just bought on a whim
and then you're literally never gonna touch again.
And I got this image of my head where I'm like,
wow, so many products that get built
are just future garbage.
Like if you look at Shark Tank,
there's some great products on Shark Tank,
but you know a lot of products there
are something that are gonna get like popular,
sell $10 million worth and like just die.
And every single person that buys that
is never gonna actually use it long term.
So they're like just manufacturing future garbage.
I think that aspect of it I've like had trouble with.
And there's also these diminishing returns where
when you like go from not having money to having money,
it's like crazy when you're able to buy all this stuff
that you couldn't.
But then after you're in that phase for a while,
like you get the new thing and you're bored of it of a day
and it's like, it's not actually impacting your life that much.
So I've been trying to like make myself
a wait a couple days before I would like pull the trigger
on something and I end up not a lot of the times.
And the other side of it is I'm trying to force myself
to have like a clear pipeline of if I get something
and I don't wanna use it,
I don't wanna just sit in my closet forever.
Like I need to have a way to have someone
that can get some use out of it, take it.
And I also put some constraints on things.
So I wouldn't say I'm like like some aesthetic,
aesthetic, what's the word?
A aesthetic-- - I don't actually know
what word you're trying to say.
- There's a word aesthetic,
it's like you've given up all earthly possessions
or something, it's like to that extreme.
I'm definitely like not going to an degree.
- I really wanna know what it is now.
- It's like the word aesthetic, but it's spelled differently.
In a lot of ways, it's like the opposite of aesthetic.
- Is it associated with like a certain belief system?
- Yeah, I think it's going to Eastern philosophy thing.
Yeah, so the reason I keep looking over my right is
'cause my closet door is open
and this is where I put all my stuff and looking at it now,
like I've gotten rid of a lot of things
and it's like gone to people that are actually going to use it.
But I do think there's a lot of stuff that's made in the world
that's like very clearly just you should garbage.
- Yeah, like I've got my, I don't know,
I had an iPhone 12 or whatever number it was
and whatever number is now 15, I don't know.
I just got a new iPhone, it had been a few iPhones
that I skipped. - Yeah.
- But like the old iPhone, it's just sitting up there
in my room and I don't know what to do with it.
I was going to recycle it and they never sent a box.
- Yeah.
- Apple was going to take it back anyway.
- On that topic, so another thing that I look at
that makes me feel bad is I have a stack of phones
that are like, - Yeah, we've got old phones
that like maybe the kids will use them some day.
- No, they won't.
- Yeah, exactly.
But I know there's like a efficient, productive way
to like as a society, there's someone out there
that knows like the right thing to do with them.
But this is why, once one of the biggest things
I'm happy with switching to Apple,
'cause they have like this whole giant global system
of like readjusting old phones and like
refurbishing them and like reselling them and everything.
- Yeah, they do.
- But now I just traded my phone every single time
and I don't have to feel bad when I upgrade
'cause I know that they can do the most efficient
possible thing.
- Yeah.
- And I wish that existed with like every piece
of electronic, there's some companies in Miami
that like just specialize in that for electronics
and I need to like look into that a little bit more, but.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, for me, if I'm getting rid of this stuff
in a way where I feel okay about,
I don't like worry about it too much.
That's really the part that bothers me.
- So, okay, getting away from like the consumerism angle,
am I missing, am I missing other things in my life?
So, 'cause that's what I was really getting at.
Do you feel like, do you do like meditation or anything?
- Jay, coworker, he has gotten super in meditation.
He's been, he does it every single morning.
He's been doing it for a very long time now
and he's hit that threshold where it like has turned
into another thing where like you're actually doing it
correctly and it feels like this crazy like almost
- Like hallucinate.
- Yeah, drugs, exactly.
And all it took was just like doing it every day
even though it felt like it wasn't working at all.
- Yeah, how long did you say you did that?
- I know you've been doing it for at least a year,
maybe even more than that, but I think he's tried
a few times in his life before and it's the first time.
He's like broken through on it?
- Yeah, I've tried it.
I've maybe done 30 days, something like that,
but it didn't ever feel like.
- Yeah, it took a while.
But I wouldn't say I have anything that's so concrete
in terms of the spirituality category.
I think I would like to get more stuff like that a little bit.
But I will say like I do see things from,
like I don't look at everything in life
like super logically or rationally.
So I think that kind of steps in that direction.
Like I feel there's all sorts of like subtle ways
to get to this.
One thing I really believe in is like taking care
of the stuff that you use for work.
So there's like older ideas that you see in movies
and stuff that I think have just stuck with me.
Like there's this cliche of like a samurai taking care
of his equipment and like treating his like sword
and like there's almost like spiritual way
where he treats it like it to get a real entity.
I feel that way with like the stuff that I use for work
and I like think about it in that way.
And it's not this rational thing.
I'm like, you know, this is the stuff that I use
to like make my livelihood and I have this like relationship
with it and kind of personifies it a little.
So I think a lot of places in my life
like I have like a more primitive view
or like a more like, I don't know what the word is.
Like it's almost like magical thinking I guess.
- Yeah.
- So I feel that and I think I'm naturally inclined.
It just leads to go in that direction a little bit
and I think I need to like pull that out of myself more.
- Lean into it.
Yeah. - Yeah.
- You feel that way? - Yeah.
Well, I like, I guess I feel that way about things
like my keyboard or like, yeah, I guess to a certain extent
the way I customize things, they do feel,
I've thought like about the lightsaber,
like the Star Wars lore.
Like a lot of what we do as developers,
once you've done it for 10 years,
you kind of need that like, I don't know,
expression that outlet to like customize your environment
that you spend so many hours in.
So like, I also may tweet the other day
about like having a fancy keyboard
or having like, rice out VIM or whatever.
I think it'll make you a good programmer.
And it's not about, it's just about like,
at some point you're gonna want those things
to just feel like your own little home.
And I definitely thought about it in terms of,
oh, you said the sword, like in terms of this thing
that has brought me all of my income throughout my life.
That's not spiritual, but I think it is.
It kind of is in the sense that like you take a step back
and you realize that like crazy and miraculous
some of this stuff around you isn't like,
I mean, I feel this way, to be honest,
like every morning when I go outside,
so it's something on days where it's sunny,
like I'll stand outside in the morning
and I'll feel the sun and it just feels like so crazy good.
And I'm just like, it feels amazing to be alive.
I can't believe this exists.
But I think, yeah, you have moments
where you can reflect on that stuff.
And even with work, I think to me the tension
is really between like rationality and efficiency
and like doing things more off of faith or belief
without having a reason.
A lot of big work decisions I do
are way more in the category of like gut feel.
Like when I meet someone, do I wanna work with them?
Who do I feel like my gut?
Like do I get a really good feeling?
I don't like think about it as like,
our company is like this and we need these skills
and we like don't have these skills.
I mean, I don't like to work that way for a lot of things.
But when I do deals with other people,
like I don't need to like have a million contracts to sign.
I just wanna feel good about the person
and do a handshake deal.
I think there's like aspects of life
where you can go one way or the other.
And I feel like in the modern world,
we go really way too far like the rational thought process.
Yeah, I do.
Explanation for everything.
Yeah, I think that's where I'm just feeling like,
I go too hard that way, I should find some balance
and figure out how to introduce.
I think I've talked about this before,
like especially with family, like having kids
not wanting to like have no beliefs
or spiritual aspects to my life.
Like that just feels bad.
Like they're just kind of like left
to figure that stuff out on their own.
Like I try to prepare them for other things in life.
Why not have that as part of it?
I don't know.
Yeah, just do stuff that doesn't make sense.
Like do you guys have like the thing that's funny for me
is Latin people are super, are like very superstitious.
Like so my wife's family is like really superstitious.
And like I like to like, I really like to like play with it
'cause I'll say stuff that they find like,
oh you can't say that 'cause if you say that it'll happen.
So I love messing with that, that if things.
But yeah, like this comes,
this shows up in so many places, right?
Like if you, I know there's people that are like,
that are like fans of a sports team
and they'll have some like ritual they do before every game.
'Cause they feel like there's some connection to it.
So yeah, just like doing stuff that doesn't make sense,
but it doesn't mean there's like something there though.
Yeah, just like make stuff up.
Sometimes I'm like the other day I was thinking like,
maybe I should just have some like random like ritual
I do before I start every day of work.
And in my head I'll be like, if I don't do this,
I'm not gonna have a good day.
And it's just like a totally made up thing,
but you know, something to it.
- There was something, some train of thought you took
on Twitter that I want to talk about.
Oh, maybe it's the react stuff.
Absolutely lots of people came out like well respected people
that don't like just like come out and say bad things
about things for no reason.
And then it's not that they said bad things,
but just express frustration.
So Cassidy and Tanner, the two that come to mind,
are there other people I missed?
- Yeah, there were a few others too.
So just to summarize, they both wrote like,
nothing extreme just minor, not minor,
but like they've just felt this building frustration
in the direction of react and how it doesn't align
with the stuff that they care about.
And they felt that way, they feel that way for a while.
And it's nothing major.
It's not like fundamentally technical or anything.
And I think that's, with these types of topics,
it's tough 'cause people like bring up the technicalities
of like, no, like what you're saying is not true
'cause you can still do this and you can sit,
then they bring up all the technical details,
but it's not really about that.
It's just about the vibe and the direction.
- It's vibes man.
- And what react cares about today.
You know, it might not be what you care about
and it feels always feels not great to be building
on something where you feel like secondary.
If it's not technically true, it just feels,
it can feel that way.
So I think a bunch of people wrote stuff.
My thing with this week was just like,
I cannot believe to the extent that people
can talk about RFCs.
Like this is like so crazy to me.
I'm like, they're really not that confusing.
- Is it a scyop?
Is it being seeded by people who just want to see RSCs
talked about more?
'Cause I do wonder how we keep coming back around to it.
- Because Dan is like, very into the conversation
even though it's frustrating for him
because people are arguing with him.
- Yeah, why did Dan make a new Twitter by the way?
I didn't catch that happening.
- This is a funny detail.
So Dan Abramov was working at meta,
obviously for the past couple of years on React.
He decided to leave and guess where he joined.
- Wait, did he go to herself?
- No, he went to blue sky.
And because he went to blue sky,
Twitter shadow band is a real account.
So petty, the petty is again.
- People work at blue sky?
- Yeah, I know, I feel like--
- Dan Abramov works at blue sky.
- Blue sky.
- I need a minute to just soak that in.
- That's like three Twitter replacements ago.
Blue sky.
- I know, but I guess that's what this is--
- Did they offer him like a truckload?
Like what motivates Dan Abramov?
- 'Cause I think he's genuinely, I think,
so I remember when he was talking about leaving
and I remember when he like,
he said that he knew where he was gonna go
and he wasn't joining there for a month
or a couple months.
I think at that point, Blue Sky was actually like the,
the thing everyone was like jumping to.
So I guess there was like some momentum behind it,
but I can see why conceptually it's interesting.
Like conceptually of all the Twitter replacements.
- Oh, that's the one that Jack is involved with, right?
- Yeah.
Hey, I have shares in that company, I think.
- Oh, hey.
- Yeah.
- Your block or whatever?
- No, that block.
I think conceptually is probably the most interesting.
So if you're someone that's like interested
in what social media can look like,
that I would say is like the most interesting,
weird take on it.
Like whether it's gonna be successful or not,
I can see how that's like a stimulating way
of doing that stuff.
But yeah, he works there.
And then he got a...
- He got Shadow Band, so he got a new account.
Wow.
- And Deb is saying his new account is also Shadow Band,
but I've seen it a lot, I've seen it all over my feed.
So I don't know to what degree.
- Interesting.
I'm so glad I asked, 'cause that's why I didn't know
he worked at Blue Sky.
I wouldn't have found out either.
- I didn't know either for a while.
And I was like, and I saw all the Shadow Band stuff
and I asked someone and they were like,
"Oh, I see."
- Wild.
I don't know, just like when I think of Dan
leaving Facebook and going somewhere else,
I would never have guessed Blue Sky.
I guess I see what you're saying in terms of like,
if you're gonna end up at a Twitter Quon in place,
that's an interesting one, I guess.
- Yeah.
Going back to this RSC talk, it is like,
I don't think it's a scyop.
I'm just, it's just wild to me how interested people are
in like, I feel people are faking the confusion.
- I was gonna say, I don't find it confusing at all.
- We knew it.
- I've never thought it was confusing.
I just thought like, the vibes, the react vibes,
just bothered me.
- Yeah, but this whole week has just been about like,
finding the inner truth of RSCs
and what they really are and find the perfect frickin' metaphor
for a split.
- Yeah, like.
- There's signs on dollar bills and we gotta figure out.
- Yeah, they're like trying to create some like,
like universal physics model,
the equivalent level complexity of RSCs
explains the whole universe and the world
and everything there is.
That's what it feels like to me.
I feel like they're like,
we're like trying to look that deep into it.
And I just, and it's kind of the reason why again,
I started on following a bunch of people because I,
it just is not worth my, this entering my brain.
And the reason I don't follow is not a criticism of people.
It's a criticism of myself because when I see this stuff,
I can't just ignore it.
It like does end up in my head and I do end up thinking about it.
And it's just, it's just a waste.
I just want to focus on other things.
But it just, it has, I literally thought it was going to be
a day or two, but it's still going.
Like today, still going.
- So this is what I wanted to talk about.
This is the thing I forgot that I wanted to talk about.
Because one question I wanted to ask you,
somebody say something about, oh, it might have been Ryan
that there are people, he kind of came out
in defense of React with a tweet and that mentioned
that there's people incentivized to kind of like,
make you think the end of React is coming.
And I had had the thought before I saw his tweet,
like, is there just like some like movement
of anti-reactism that's motivated by something?
But I couldn't come up with,
and I still can't come up with, what would the incentive be?
Who is incentivized to see?
I mean, besides like, I guess other frameworks,
if you want to have a scarcity mindset, like solid JS,
I could see maybe like a handful of people
that like run open source projects that maybe their adoption
is in direct competition with React.
But those aren't the people that are saying stuff,
and I can't figure out why would someone be incentivized
to trash React, to convince people that React is bad.
- Yeah, I'm sure it has happened,
but I didn't find that point that compelling either.
I think even the people, like the people you mentioned,
like Tanner, people that were kind of bringing it up
this past week, that they were just kind of frustrated,
they're all continuing to use React,
and their products are built on React,
and they're going to continue to use it for probably ever.
Those are genuine frustrations.
Someone like me, I have a lot of incentive,
make it be like reactors over.
'Cause I just find it annoying.
I just find React annoying,
and I don't like how much people talk about it,
and I find it extremely boring.
So personally, yeah.
- But it's kind of like a manufactured incentive,
like it's just like-- - No, I care more
about being accurate and not exaggerating,
so that doesn't actually come into play.
I don't think it's the end of React at all,
but I see how it's not as cherished as it once was.
- Yeah, and I guess I made statements a while back
about how I felt about the vibes with React.
I know I didn't have any motivation
to convince people React's bad.
When I see Cassidy's posts and Tanner's posts,
I don't get the sense that they have
some like ulterior motive, ulterior?
Ulterior, what is that word?
- Is it ulterior with a you?
Ulterior? - I don't know.
That's what I just realized.
I've said ulterior motive all my life,
and I don't know what that word is.
Is that an actual word?
Ulterior motive?
- I think that, I think these are two different words.
- Oh boy.
- Ulterior motive.
- Okay, ulterior motive is correct,
and I think ulterior is like the outside of something, right?
- Okay, okay.
- No, I don't know.
- So I don't think those--
- I'll sit near my ulterior is not a word.
- It's not a word.
- It's only ulterior with a you.
- With a you, okay.
Ulterior motives.
So I was mixing like alternative, alternative, yeah.
Ulterior, ulterior motives.
Anyway, I don't think any of us had ulterior motives,
at least in that small group that I just mentioned.
So if the three of us, and we have nothing in common,
but like the three individual people come out and say,
something about the vibes bothers me,
and we're not communicating about it.
I don't think Tanner and Cassie communicated about it.
Like, there's something there.
What is it?
What is it about the vibes, quote unquote?
Is it a personality?
Is it people?
Is it what is it?
Docs?
Somebody tell me, what is it that we all feel
that we don't like?
- To me, I think it's a combination of a lot of things.
Like, foundationally, if you're doing work,
you're trying to build products,
you're trying to do your day-to-day job.
And then you don't feel like the work being done
and react is lining up with that.
That's gonna create some weirdness for you under the hood.
Then if there's like a bunch of marketing with it,
and if there's a companies behind these things,
and if it's like, you know, there's people behind these things
that are pushing certain messages,
and there's fights between those people too.
Like, you know, like next and remakes.
Like, we haven't seen any kind of blow up lately,
but like, it's not like they particularly like each other either.
So, I think it's just like all these things that,
it's so much stuff for such a little part.
Tiny, tiny part of your work.
That's my guess.
Like, I think that's why I'm just like,
this is not an attention it takes to,
which is, I'm really just speaking for myself at this point.
Like, just an amount of attention and focus it takes.
It's just like...
- I mean, I'm also annoyed.
Maybe it rubs off.
Maybe you're making me annoyed at it, but...
- I don't blame me.
- I'm definitely...
- Blame the real criminal.
Dan Abramov, too.
- Yeah, Dan, blue sky, sorry.
- No, Dan's really, I like every interaction I've had with Dan,
and that's what, I don't think it's Dan.
I think it's...
- No, it's not him at all.
It's not an individual person.
- It's not an individual person, but it is a vibe,
and that's carried out by groups of people, I guess.
I don't know.
- There's this thing that's called an emergent conspiracy
where you have something that very much
looks and operates like a conspiracy,
but there's no explicit malice or explicit intention
to create a conspiracy just emerges out of the complexity
of people and their incentives.
So that's probably really, really all it is.
I'm just trying to do their best,
but given the way things are laid out in the history,
it's kind of on a certain path.
- Yeah, okay.
Who would've thought?
The year 2024, the reputation of React would be diminishing,
going downward, and the reputation of Zuck would be going up.
I feel like he's had kind of a...
- I hate it.
I hate it so much.
- A little boost in his public perception.
- I know, the freaking cow macadamia nuts shit.
- I'm sorry, what?
- Everyone loved that.
- I have no idea what you're talking about.
- Well, you know how he bought this huge property in Hawaii,
and he's had it for a while, but I think...
- Did he buy enough Larry Ellis or whatever?
Like, part of his life.
- No, I don't think so.
I don't think it's an island.
I think it's a big, I don't know what it is,
but he is raising, he's trying to raise the best beef
in the world there, and he has a bunch of cows,
he has a bunch of macadamia trees,
and the cows eat macadamia nut and meal,
and his kids are involved,
and they're kind of like, gonna do all that.
And for a lot of people, it's like their fantasy of like,
I want to quit programming and be a farmer,
and it's kind of what their fantasy is.
So everyone's like super into that,
and I just fucking hate Mark Zuckerberg so much.
- But he's into it too, so I kind of like him now.
I'm sorry. - Yeah, I know.
- I'm part of the problem.
Actually love macadamia nuts too. (laughs)
- I love your macadamia nuts also, I have a big of it.
- They're so sweet, they're just the ones.
- They're great, they're one of the best nuts.
- Nobody talks about macadamia nuts.
Really? - It's the best nut by far.
- It's one of the best, it's also like, health wise too,
it's one of the best options.
- Is it really expensive or something?
There's gotta be a downside.
- It is, I would say it's definitely more expensive
than other stuff, but it's not that crazy.
You can get a big ass bag.
- You're investing in your health, you know?
You gotta, oh, that's something I want to talk about.
We talked about last time, I think last week it was,
we talked about what's his name, Brian Johnson?
- Yeah.
- I'm participating in a thing.
- A blueprint 5000 something.
It's like a big study, me and Casey got in,
you had to like apply, and we had to sing a little song,
I don't know, we got in.
And now for like 90 days, I think,
we're gonna be taking all the supplements he takes
or something, there's like a stack of stuff,
and then he's gonna ship us nutty pudding,
so we're not to make it.
There's gonna be all these different things
we have to do to adhere to this like study,
and they're gonna be taking all these markers
along the way with all these 5000 people.
So it's gonna be fun, it's gonna be interesting.
- That's really cool.
I'm so yeah, I'm really excited about the research
at ask me the very end they're doing.
Like it's, it reminds me a lot of what science
used to be like in like the 1800s,
like at least what I imagined.
It's always just like some like rich guy.
- Yeah.
- That's just like funding his own,
like Darwin is just like funding his own
trips to the Galapagos and like figuring out evolution.
- Yeah.
- It really feels like that.
And now it's like going from just the one data point
of his body to like potentially thousands of bodies
who have to do this, it's interesting.
We'll see what comes of it I guess.
- Yeah, it's great.
And it just, I also just love this story of,
everyone like saw what he was doing initially
and it was like, oh, this is like a selfish human
that doesn't want to die.
But then you see this side of it and it's like,
we're all gonna benefit.
So I love when people can be selfish
and it's also great for everyone.
So when are you gonna eat a steak again?
- Never.
- I mean, you're gonna die without ever eating another steak?
- Like vegan steak.
I mean, does that count?
- Slab grown steak, don't you sure?
- Don't say that.
- Oh, blah grown.
- Look at these mycelium.
Well, there's these like mycelium, you know,
like mushroom root.
There's these like steak and chicken patties
that they're making now out of mycelium.
It's unbelievable.
Like the texture and the taste.
They are so good.
And I don't want something like a bunch of crap.
And then like, they're like pretty good.
- That's the same.
- I mean, I don't know.
I've never heard of anything made of mycelium.
So I don't know how processed it has to be.
Like mycelium are these tiny little threads in the soil.
I have no idea how they harvest them.
'Cause they're like super like.
- Yeah.
- It's thinner than a hair, right?
- I don't know how in the world they're creating
something out of that.
It feels like it's probably still pretty heavily processed.
Not a thing we would eat regularly,
but they're really good.
- I mean, I don't mind if it takes a lot of work,
that's not necessarily bad for me.
It just like, 'cause I know with like
the meat substitute shit,
it was just like a shit ton of weird oils plus like.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, and I was like, that doesn't seem worth it.
- Yeah, no, I don't like to eat that kind of stuff.
I mean, I'm not looking to replace the taste of steak
in my life, but it's interesting all the different products
that are coming out of your plant-based.
- So you're gonna die without ever eating a steak again.
- So here's the thing.
I remember like a few years into our journey.
It's now been 11 years in February.
I remember a few years into going plant-based,
people be like, how do you have the willpower
to just not, there's no willpower involved.
Like once you've done it for a while,
and then you have other reasons for doing it
that aren't just health, like we go through periods
where we eat terribly, like we eat vegan junk food,
like lots of it.
And we just, we lose the motivation and willpower to me.
Yeah, to care about our health,
but we still care about other things
that we didn't necessarily get into plant-based eating
over those things, but just over time,
they kind of like became part of our, I guess beliefs, I don't know.
And so there's no like a bit of tug from those things.
And not to mention like dairy, certain foods now,
just the idea that makes me sick.
- Yeah, your taste can really get rewired.
- Yeah, like the idea that getting in my body
just makes me want to throw up.
No temptation, no desire to ever eat products
that come from animals.
We sometimes have honey, like when it's in stuff
and it's like, we don't want to cause a scene.
That's the only like, I think it's a vegan thing
that we've crossed the line over the last 11 years.
- Okay. - Anyway.
- I gotta trick you.
- How are you gonna trick me?
- I gotta trick you into eating some.
- No, don't do that.
That's so awful.
That is so your brand.
You would.
Look at as you sat in the dark.
- What you said, you said it wasn't a spirit,
you're not spiritual.
So then I feel like I don't feel bad
if it's not like a religious thing.
- What?
- So you only would care if, okay, maybe it is religious.
- Okay, think about it this way.
- My religious beliefs don't, don't have to be me.
(laughing)
Don't do it next.
- Yeah.
Well, think about it this way.
If I trick someone that's religious into eating meat,
they feel like they've committed a sin
and that God is gonna punish them.
And like, that feels bad.
- Yeah, I feel all those things.
You better not.
- I'm gonna come and react to my aunt.
- I'm gonna be at my aunt.
- I'm gonna be at my aunties.
And you're gonna have food at your house
or you're gonna say it's vegan.
I can't eat anything at your house now
'cause I know this is a plan of yours.
(laughing)
- No, okay, but actually, I have that,
like I said, I have that restaurant
that I've been waiting to go to till you're in town
'cause there's no reason I'm gonna go to a vegan restaurant.
- Oh, right, there's a vegan.
- Of my own accord.
But I heard it's very good, though.
- Okay, we're checking it out.
I can't wait.
- There's actually two--
- I think I'm coming the day before
and saying the day after.
I think I made that, I made sure my react-miming trip was--
- Do you think you're bringing your family or just you?
- Maybe.
I mean, they're always looking for issues to go to the beach,
so.
- Perfect.
And then we can go there.
- Yeah, we can 'cause you live by the beach.
Well, were we done with the React stuff?
It is funny, like, we're all gonna go to React Miami.
You don't even use React.
I don't use React really anymore.
We're all talking about the vibes
and how RSTs drive us crazy
and all the talking about it nonstop
and it's like, oh, React Miami.
(laughs)
- Every single person I've talked to in private
has these same feelings.
Like, every single, like, irrelevant person in the field
that you would respect has these exact same feelings.
So yeah, it just is a weird time.
But you know what, that's what's great about a conference
is like, the topic doesn't really matter
'cause you're there to see all the people
and that's what matters.
- It's true.
It's the party of it.
- You spend half of React Miami talking about SolidJS
anyway, yeah.
(laughs)
- You've gotten everything out of me this week.
Is there anything you wanted to say?
- Going back to what I was saying earlier about it,
we're expecting your equipment.
Like, I was not doing that at all.
It's crazy how many cascading problems is created.
So all my cables were just like hanging down
to the ground behind my desk.
- Yeah, that's all the picture.
- Which, yeah, it was terrible.
And that was what the desk lifted up.
So imagine when it was lifted down,
they're all just lying on the ground.
(laughs)
So we couldn't, it wasn't easy to vacuum
underneath the desk.
- Yeah, yeah, she was just down.
- When you live in the house, like mine,
you're like inside, outside, by going in and out.
- Oh.
- As you go.
- Drag the extra turn.
- Going in and out.
(laughs)
And there was like, just like,
I was just really sort of like sitting dirt.
Like, there was really just like piles of,
it was not, it was getting to a really bad place.
And I was like, I can't believe I let it get this far.
- Yeah.
- And I have clean floors again.
I feel so much better.
I think this has to give me like,
like a 20% productivity boost.
It has to.
- It really does help.
- When my office is clean,
I feel so much better.
Like sometimes I let stuff build up and,
and my wires are always clean.
I don't, I'm not an animal.
But, but I do sometimes like have boxes piled up
or stuff that, I don't know.
And if I ever just take the time,
one morning to clean it up, I do, I just feel good.
I like to look around and just feel like
things are in place.
It's nice.
- Important.
- I don't know about a 20% boost in productivity.
That's a little intense, but.
- I'm gonna, I'm gonna give it a 20%.
I think it might actually even be higher.
I think 20% is, is that, is that, is that, like,
does it fade over time?
I mean, surely it doesn't.
- Yeah, of course.
- It's not 20% permanent.
- Yeah.
Then I gotta figure out the next thing to change.
- Yeah, this is your magic thinking, isn't it?
You just got magical powers from cleaning your room.
Now you've got 20% boost.
Make it so.
Yeah.
How do you feel about like manifestation stuff?
Casey thinks I manifest stuff.
She says, I've always said I'm good at making money
and I am good at making money.
Like things like that.
- This concept has never really clicked that much for me,
but I, I don't like disagree with it entirely.
But I think I also just don't know what it is like.
- There's a book for it.
- Like what is it?
Like is it just?
- Well, there's a book.
- There is a book.
- I know there's a book.
Whether it's a secret or whatever.
- Bottom stuff and like the fields of energy all around us.
- Yeah, so I obviously don't believe in that, but.
(laughing)
- So I obviously.
- That, that's a secret, right?
Isn't that the name of the book?
- Oh, no, that's not the book I was talking about.
There's probably lots of books.
There's lots of books that literally every single thing.
(laughing)
There's been a lot of time for people to write books.
- I did finally getting back into reading again.
- Are you?
Wait, reading or listening?
- No, reading, reading.
So I've been.
- Oh, you like sit down with a physical book
and move your little finger across the page and read words?
- Oh, my finger.
Oh, am I like nine years old?
- Yeah.
- Do you still do that?
Do you like?
- No, I just, I tried to,
I tried to drum up a visual of you setting
with your legs across a little height.
- I think you finger read.
- Glasses.
- What's up?
- I finger read.
- Is that what it's called?
- I can read fingers.
(laughing)
- Not palms.
Those are easy.
It's really hard when you just try to get to finger reading.
(laughing)
- Stupid, very stupid.
Very stupid set of sentences we just said.
- Yeah, really nice.
- But yeah, I've been like just turning off my phone
before bed for like an hour and just been,
it's funny, I've had this completely different-
- The three, two, one.
- Angle with reading,
every time I read before, I'm always like,
for some reason trying to read as fast as possible.
And I had this very obvious realization, like,
for what?
Like why am I trying to finish this?
Really fast.
I actually don't, this is like the one area in my life
where I'm like, I don't care about being good at reading
or like having read a lot of books or like,
I don't really-
- What are you reading like?
- Are you reading fiction?
- Yeah, I found like a fantasy book.
- Oh.
- So if you're reading for fun, yeah, who cares?
But I think I have that feeling
'cause I'm always reading nonfiction stuff
and I'm trying to just learn it
and like getting my head as fast as possible.
- I would do that with fiction too mostly
'cause I just was into the story.
And I was like, I need to know what happens.
But yeah, but now I'm like, this is just a sleep aid.
Like I'm trying to read this to like make my,
'cause I get super sleepy when I read.
So I literally read for like, I said an hour
but really ends up being like 15 minutes,
maybe like even 10 minutes sometimes.
And I just fall asleep like with my Kindle.
- Oh, you fall asleep.
- And it's perfect.
- You just like use that to literally take yourself to sleep.
- Yeah, and it's great. I read super slow.
- Yeah.
- Depends how I feel.
And I'm just trying to, I'm just using it as like a way
to go to sleep and I've been really into it.
And the story's good.
So it's really real grown up doing this.
- It's like a grown up.
- Since we talked about the sleep stuff,
I've heard about the three, two, one.
Have you heard of this?
Like three hours before bed, stop eating.
Two hours before bed, stop drinking.
And one hour before bed, stop looking at your phone
or any other thing.
- Two hours before it stopped drinking.
Like stop drinking alcohol.
- No, just like water, anything.
- Oh really?
I drink a lot of water right before bed.
- Really?
Do you have to get up and pee at night?
- Nope, 'cause I don't have the butter
of a small child like you.
- Is it 'cause I'm 37 or did I always have it?
I don't remember anything. - I can't remember.
It was years ago, probably.
Far enough back, but I don't remember.
- Huh.
Well, I hope when you're 37,
you have to pee so I don't have to worry about my prostate.
Well, by then I'll have known if it was something
I need to worry about.
- Well, I'll have died from whatever.
Something just thing in this study.
- Okay, let's just get a little dark.
Let's not manifest my death here on the podcast, please.
(laughing)
- Well, wait until the last hour,
what do you have to do for the last hour?
- Don't be on your phone.
Just like you said.
- And does that work?
Did that help you?
Are you doing that?
- Yeah, so I stopped eating way before three hours.
I stopped drinking.
I have been stopping my water intake a lot earlier.
And I haven't had to get up.
So I've gone a week now, I think.
I haven't had to get up in the night and pee,
which is super new for me.
It's nice.
And then the phone thing, yeah, I'm not usually on my phone.
The evening, well, it's the only time
Casey and I get together.
We have like an hour and a half after the boys go to sleep
before we go to sleep.
So we're not really on our phones
during that stretch anyway.
Not having to get up to pee has been huge
for my sleep, I think.
- Nice.
Yeah, you did bring that up, but it's simple solution.
- Well, it's simple solution.
Stop drinking water before bed.
(laughs)
- The most overly hydrated person I know.
- Yeah, I do drink a lot of water.
It's true.
If I don't drink a lot of water though,
or maybe it's 'cause I am drinking too much water.
I cramp, like in Jiu Jitsu, I get like a lot of muscle cramps.
I've been trying liquid IVs.
Those seem to really help.
- They couldn't.
- Maybe I still have enough electrolyte.
- I was gonna say, don't you,
you were talking about how many bananas you guys buy.
Like, I'm surprised.
- Yeah, I eat a lot of bananas.
Yeah, I don't eat in breakfast today.
It's 10 o'clock.
Max, I gotta eat.
- It's 11 for me.
And I mean either.
- You have any neither?
- Mm-hmm.
- Look at us.
Either, either.
- We're intermittent fasting, I guess.
There's a thing for everyone.
- Yeah, I guess so, yeah.
Accidental intermittent fasting.
(laughs)
It's funny.
- Okay, we can end it.
- Yeah, yeah, let's end it.
- All right.
See you guys. - See you.